# 1. Overview

This package provides methods and resources to generate the scene graph.

More details about the scene graph can be obtained in this paper: https://arxiv.org/abs/1609.05834

# 2. Scene graph

Scene graph is a semantic representation used to represent the environment. It uses graph strcutures to represent the elements present in the scene. Nodes are used to represent objects and the edges are uses to represent the relationship between the nodes.

For instance, in the warehouse scenario, the root node is the "Warehouse" and the direct child node is the "Floor". From that, "Floor" may have as child nodes "Conveyor Belt", "Shelf", "Human"and "Robot". The edges that links the parents to its child may have "on" as relationship.

Each node contains some attributes. In case of the "Robot", it may have "Velocity", "Size" and "Position" as attributes.

Currently, the scene graph generator extracts objects from the V-REP scenario to build the graph.
As a ongoing work, the generator is under modification to use the output generated by the Mask R-CNN method.

# 3. Running the Scene Graph Generator

## 3.1. Running ROS node

Execute the following code in the terminal:
```
rosrun turtlebot2i_scene_graph ros_scene_graph_generator.py 
```

The generated scene graph will be available in the `/turtlebot2i/scene_graph` topic.

## 3.2. Execute as a standalone application

Execute the following code in the terminal:
```
roscd turtlebot2i_scene_graph
cd src
python vrep_scene_graph_generator.py
```

The generated scene graph will be stored in the `sg_robot` folder
Inside the folder, it will be available the generated graph in image format.


